---
# layout: post
title:  An introduction to Umbraco 8
excerpt: Umbraco has introduced three major new features with Umbraco 8. Let's dig into some of those new features here.
pubDate: 2020-01-28
slug: "umbraco8"
---

<small>_This post was originally published on the [Shout Digital blog](http://web.archive.org/web/20210119000335/https://www.shoutdigital.com/insights/blog/an-introduction-to-umbraco-8/)_</small>

Umbraco has introduced three major new features with Umbraco 8:

- Infinite Editing
- Language Variants
- Content Apps

Plus, it's had a visual refresh and a lot of under the hood performance improvements. Let's dig into some of those new features.

## Infinite Editing
Infinite Editing gives you the ability to make changes across the site without losing focus on the current page you're editing. Say you want to adjust the crop of an image... previously you would have had to save the page you were working on, find the image in the Media Library, make your changes, and then come back to the page, losing track of where you had started. Now, you can edit that image in the same window and return seamlessly to editing your page.

## Language Variants
<div class="iframe">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-vzxCdjq4FM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"></iframe>
</div>
Here at Shout, we've built numerous multilingual sites for our clients. Umbraco 8 now makes this much simpler to use and easier to maintain. Languages are a first-class citizen now. You can now define languages within the CMS, set up mandatory languages, edit different translations side by side and even see your whole site structure in multiple languages at a glance.

## Content Apps
_"A Content App is not directly part of the editing experience but can give you information and feedback on the content you are creating as well as statistics and results of the impact of the content you have published. It can even bring you suggestions on how to improve your content while you're creating it. No need to jump to external platforms or checklists to get these insights - now you're able to get it right where you need it."_

Content Apps allow developers to build functionality into the Umbraco CMS that it may have been previously necessary to use an external tool for. Useful for marketers and editors, developers can surface information from analytics integrations, eCommerce statistics, or workflow support tools to guide an internal process for content creation and review.

__Developer Paul Seal has already built a live chat app using Content Apps!__

<div class="iframe">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TbQsMDQ_vys" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"></iframe>
</div>